---
layout: page-fullwidth
title:  "Structure Library"
categories:
    - appendix
tags:
    - appendix
header: no
breadcrumb: true
---
<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

{% include mathjax.html %}

### Silicon Slab Systems
#### [Silicon Slab]({{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/silicon_slab)
{% include accordian-no-hlines.html title="Details" contents="VASP Parameters: plane wave energy cutoff 540 eV, energy convergence 1e-8, force convergence 10 meV."%}

---

#### [Si:9Anth]({{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/silicon_1Anth)
Silicon slab with (111) faces and anthracene covalently attached in the 9 position (in the middle of its long edge). The <a class="" href="{{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/silicon_1Anth_initial">starting structure</a>.
{% include accordian-no-hlines.html title="Details" contents="VASP Parameters: plane wave energy cutoff 540 eV, energy convergence 1e-5, force convergence 10 meV. The anthracene can be placed along the symmetry axis of the silicon slab so that it dodges the surface psuedo-hydrogens and does not develop a bend, however, this structure with a bend is 0.25 eV (9.67 kT or 5.76 kcal/mol) lower in energy than the stiff molecule."%}

---

#### [Si:Tet]({{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/silicon_1Tet)
Silicon slab with (111) faces and tetracene covalently attached along its long edge. The <a class="" href="{{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/silicon_1Tet_initial">starting structure</a>.
{% include accordian-no-hlines.html title="Details" contents="VASP Parameters: plane wave energy cutoff 540 eV, energy convergence 1e-5, force convergence 10 meV."%}

---

#### [Si:9EA - singlet]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/silicon_9EA_singlet)
Silicon slab with (111) faces and 9-ethylanthracene attached to the center silicon on one side of the slab. 
{% include accordian-no-hlines.html title="Details" contents="VASP Parameters: plane wave energy cutoff 540 eV, energy convergence 1e-5, force convergence 10 meV."%}
---

#### [Si:9EA - triplet]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/silicon_9EA_triplet)
Silicon slab with (111) faces and 9-ethylanthracene attached to the center silicon on one side of the slab. Started with the unconstrained structure above and continued with a spin constrained optimization (`ISPIN = 2, NUPDOWN = 2`).
{% include accordian-no-hlines.html title="Details" contents="VASP Parameters: plane wave energy cutoff 540 eV, energy convergence 1e-5, force convergence 10 meV."%}

---

#### [Si:9VA - singlet]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/silicon_9VA_singlet)
Silicon slab with (111) faces and 9-vinylanthracene attached to the center silicon on one side of the slab. 
{% include accordian-no-hlines.html title="Details" contents="VASP Parameters: plane wave energy cutoff 540 eV, energy convergence 1e-5, force convergence 10 meV."%}

---

#### [Si:9VA - triplet]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/silicon_9VA_triplet)
Silicon slab with (111) faces and 9-vinylanthracene attached to the center silicon on one side of the slab. Started with the unconstrained structure above and continued with a spin constrained optimization (`ISPIN = 2, NUPDOWN = 2`).
{% include accordian-no-hlines.html title="Details" contents="VASP Parameters: plane wave energy cutoff 540 eV, energy convergence 1e-5, force convergence 10 meV."%}

---

#### []



### Silicon Quantum Dot Systems

The LAMMPS data files were generated by opening the xyz files in VMD. Using the TkConsole, you can add a bounding box with the command `pbc set {x y z} -all` to set the size and `pbc box -center com` to ensure the center of the box is at the center of mass. Visualize the result using `draw pbcbox`.


#### [Silicon QD]({{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/si_QD-30A.xyz)
An approximately 30 angstrom diameter silicon quantum dot capped with hydrogens. Because of the geometry of the dot, some silicons have 2 hydrogens attached (Si-H2) to completely passivate the surface. The faces on the top and bottom (+/- z directions) are `[111]` terminated surfaces with only Si-H bonds.

#### SiQD:Si1Anth
The [LAMMPS data file]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/data.Si1Anth).

#### [SiQD:Si2Anth]({{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/si_QD-30A_Si2Anth.xyz)
The [LAMMPS data file]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/data.Si2Anth).

#### [SiQD:Si3Anth]({{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/si_QD-30A_Si3Anth.xyz)
The [LAMMPS data file]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/data.Si3Anth).

#### [SiQD:Si4Anth]({{ site.urlfile }}structure_library/si_QD-30A_Si4Anth.xyz)
The [LAMMPS data file]({{site.urlfile}}structure_library/data.Si4Anth).