---
layout: page-fullwidth
title:  "Redfield"
categories:
    - theory
tags:
    - theory
    - quantum dynamics
header: no
breadcrumb: true
---
<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">


{% include mathjax.html %}

## Introduction

For an open quantum system, the most general Hamiltonian can be written as

$$
\begin{equation}\label{eq:openQuantumH}
    \mathcal{H} = H_S + H_B + H_{SB},
\end{equation}
$$

where $$H_S$$ is the system Hamiltonian, $$H_B$$ is the Hamiltonian for the bath or environment of the system, and $$H_{SB}$$ is the coupling between the system and bath. The time evolution of the total density matrix is given by the quantum Liouville equation ($$\hbar = 1$$)

$$
\begin{equation}\label{eq:quantumLiouville}
    \frac{d\rho(t)}{dt} = -i[\mathcal{H},\rho(t)].
\end{equation}
$$

For convenience, we commonly define the Liouville operator $$\mathcal{L}$$. Its behaviour is defined by how it acts on an operator $$A$$

$$
\begin{equation}
    \mathcal{L}A = -i[\mathcal{H},A].
\end{equation}
$$

The total density matrix $$\rho(t)$$ contains information about the bath dynamics that are typically not of interest. Eq. \eqref{eq:quantumLiouville} is also difficult to solve. This chapter outlines various quantum master equations that take different approaches in approximating Eq. \eqref{eq:quantumLiouville} to learn about the dynamics of the system.


## Redfield Equation

The Redfield equation is one of the most common examples referenced when discussing quantum master equations. It is an approximate solution to Eq. \eqref{eq:quantumLiouville} that depends on weak coupling to the environment-small $$H_{SB}$$. The Redfield equation is also Markovian, meaning we assume that the probability of an event-population transfer for example-depends only on the current state of the system, not the history of the system. This section will derive the Redfield equation and outline where these approximations are important.

### Perturbation Theory and the Interaction Picture

We assume from the beginning that the system-bath coupling is weak. We can then write Eq.\eqref{eq:openQuantumH} as

$$
\begin{align}
\mathcal{H} &= H_0 + \lambda V,\\
H_0 &= H_S + H_B,\\
V &= H_{SB}.
\end{align}
$$

The derivation is simplified in the interaction picture. The total time evolution operator is

$$
\begin{equation}
    U(t) = e^{-i\mathcal{H}t} = U_{SB}(t)U_0(t)
\end{equation}
$$

